Instructions/default instruct (#3)
Bixal/.github: .github/instructions/a11y.instructions.md

- Do not over-engineer; prioritize practical, effective accessibility measures.

## Essentials
- Follow WCAG 2.0 AA standards (minimum conformance level)
- Implement semantic HTML structure and proper heading hierarchy
- Ensure keyboard navigation and screen reader compatibility
- Maintain sufficient color contrast ratios (4.5:1 for normal text, 3:1 for large text)
- Provide alternative text for images and multimedia content
- Test with assistive technologies (screen readers, keyboard-only navigation)

## Key Files
- Frontend components with ARIA attributes and semantic HTML
- CSS files with focus states and high contrast support
- Test files with accessibility assertions
- ESLint configuration with jsx-a11y rules
- Package.json with accessibility testing dependencies

## Development Guidelines

### Semantic HTML & Structure
- Use proper HTML5 semantic elements (`<header>`, `<main>`, `<nav>`, `<section>`, `<article>`, `<footer>`)
- Implement logical heading hierarchy (h1 → h2 → h3, no skipping levels)
- Use lists (`<ul>`, `<ol>`) for grouped content
- Ensure proper form labels and fieldsets
- Use `<button>` for actions and `<a>` for navigation

### ARIA Implementation

> - Add ARIA labels for interactive elements without visible text
> - Use `aria-describedby` for additional context or instructions
> - Implement `aria-expanded` for collapsible content
> - Use `aria-live` regions for dynamic content updates
> - Add `role` attributes when semantic HTML isn't sufficient

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use ARIA only when HTML can't convey semantics or state
- Prefer visible text labels. Use ARIA labels for interactive elements without visible text (icon-only buttons).  Use real labels for forms
- Use `aria-describedby` for supplementary help or error details. Pair it with a label and keep descriptions concise
- Implement `aria-expanded` for collapsible content
- Use `aria-live` regions for dynamic content updates. Avoid making large containers as live.
- Add `role` attributes when semantic HTML isn't sufficient. Don't override native roles.
```

- Test with color blindness simulators

### Images & Media
- Provide descriptive alt text for informative images
- Use empty alt="" for decorative images
- Add captions and transcripts for video content
- Ensure audio content has text alternatives
- Implement proper figure and figcaption markup

### Forms
- Associate labels with form controls using `for` and `id`
- Provide clear error messages and validation feedback
- Use fieldsets and legends for grouped form elements
- Implement proper form validation with accessible error handling
- Add helpful instructions and required field indicators

### Dynamic Content
- Use ARIA live regions for status updates and notifications
- Manage focus when content changes (modals, page transitions)
- Ensure dynamic content is announced to screen readers
- Provide loading states and progress indicators
- Handle client-side routing accessibility

### Testing Guidelines
- Run automated accessibility scans using axe-core
- Test with keyboard-only navigation
- Verify screen reader compatibility (NVDA, JAWS, VoiceOver)
- Check color contrast with automated tools
- Validate HTML semantics and ARIA usage

> ## Reference Resources

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: USWDS has a good overview on a11y (both WCAG and section 508):
https://designsystem.digital.gov/documentation/accessibility/

> - [`WCAG 2.0 Guidelines`](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG20/quickref/) - Complete accessibility guidelines

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: The updated WCAG 2.2 quick guidelines:
https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/

> - [`WebAIM`](https://webaim.org/) - Accessibility resources and tools

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: Not sure if it'll already count it, but there's also WebAIMs WCAG 2 checklist:

https://webaim.org/standards/wcag/checklist
